# ICP Package Manager

This is an MVP alpha.

ICP Package Manager is an analogue of Linux package managers, but for ICP. It allows to install the code of provided packages (in the future they will be provided by DAOs akin Linux distros) into a user's "own" subnet, giving the user sovereignity over his software and greater execution speed thanks to interoperating software installed in the same subnet.

For more information on this project [see here](https://dev.package-manager.com).

See [`TODO.md`](TODO.md) about yet unimplemented features.

[`BOOTSTRAP.md`](BOOTSTRAP.md) describes the proposed algorithm for package manager bootstrapping.

## Howto guides to running it

I strongly recommend to use [patched](https://github.com/dfinity/sdk/pull/4083) DFX for compiling this faster.

`make deploy-work` for deploying the UI.

`make deploy-test && npm test` for automatic tests.

Currently, there are some errors deploying this in production: `make NETWORK=ic deploy-work`:

- It requires to copy several `.did` files manually.
- It disagrees with local version on whether `principalToSubaccount` to return `Blob` or `Nat8`,
  what requires manually edit source while deploying.

To get started, you might want to explore the project directory structure and the default configuration file. Working with this project in your development environment will not affect any production deployment or identity tokens.

To learn more before you start working with ICP Package Manager, see the following documentation available online:

- [Quick Start](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/deploy-locally)
- [SDK Developer Tools](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/developer-docs/setup/install)
- [Motoko Programming Language Guide](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/motoko)
- [Motoko Language Quick Reference](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/current/motoko/main/language-manual)

If you want to start working on your project right away, you might want to try the following commands:

```bash
cd ic-package-manager/
dfx help
dfx canister --help
```

### Note on frontend environment variables

If you are hosting frontend code somewhere without using DFX, you may need to make one of the following adjustments to ensure your project does not fetch the root key in production:

- set`DFX_NETWORK` to `ic` if you are using Webpack
- use your own preferred method to replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` in the autogenerated declarations
  - Setting `canisters -> {asset_canister_id} -> declarations -> env_override to a string` in `dfx.json` will replace `process.env.DFX_NETWORK` with the string in the autogenerated declarations
- Write your own `createActor` constructor
